==== Terminology ====

[[download|Download Terminology Here]]

{{:icon-terminology.png?nolink |}}

{{ :terminology-ls.png?&200|}}

Terminology is a terminal emulator for Linux/BSD/UNIX etc. systems
that uses EFL and has a whole bunch of bells and whistles. Use it as
your regular vt100 terminal emulator along with all the usual things
like 256 color support (we attempt to emulate Xterm as closely as
possible in most respects).

Of course since it uses EFL, it works in X11, under a Wayland
compositor and even directly in the framebuffer on Linux. Replace your
boring text-mode VT with a graphical one that requires no display
system.

We have config panels (just press right mouse or hold left mouse down for
about a second) and you can even customize the colors to your own
liking or just use the colors specified with your theme.

{{:terminology-colors.png?&200 |}}

Run all your regular terminal apps, like top, htop, ls, emacs, vim, mc
etc. as you always have, and enjoy one of the fastest terminal
emulators around in terms of it handling I/O. No waiting for scrolling
any longer than the application generating the output spends.
Terminology will keep scrollback in RAM, not on any file on disk to
keep things a bit more secure. In addition scrollback is compressed on
the fly to save space. It can even use OpenGL to render if you have
configured the acceleration preferences for EFL (Elementary).

{{:terminology-htop.png?&200 |}}

You will have a nice and unmistakable visual bell to let you know
something is wrong, as well as sound to get your attention (can be
turned off by muting alerts).

{{ :terminology-bell.png?&200|}}

Terminology understands full file paths, URL links and email addresses
in the terminal and will underline them on mouse-over so you can click
and get more information such as gravatar information for that e-mail
address, or to download the file from a url (and if it's a video or
animated gif, play it, otherwise just display it).

{{ :terminology-link.png?&200|}}

Down't be mystified as to what is going on while it downloads, as
you'll get a nice progress bar to let you know how things are going,

{{:terminology-download.png?&200 |}}

And when the file is ready (instantly if local), it will display the
file for you in a nice popup inside the Terminal. It saves bringing up
another GUI application if all you wanted was to quickly see what was
going on in that file or URL. Of course Terminology can be configured
to bring up files with external application helpers.

{{ :terminology-gif.png?&200|}}

Never again be stuck not being able to see cats do stupid things in
animated gifs when you don't have your web browser available. Your
terminal can give you all the fluffy fun you wanted by itself. You can
even use tycat (a special cat tool that provides metadata for
Terminology via escape sequences), to literally "cat" content inline
in your terminal. it even remembers it in scrollback. Even if it is a
video file. Scroll back and the video will play. With sound as well
(and controls to seek, pause etc.).

{{:terminology-png.png?&200 |}}

Your image files will come up with all their glorious alpha channel
goodness. Even SVG files will scale properly, PDFs and PS files will
be visible and scalable. If you have libreoffice installed, you can
even cat PPT, ODP, DOC and even XLS files if you want.

{{ :terminology-cat-video.png?&200|}}

But don't just click on links or use "typop" to pop up files, and tycat
them, but even set them as backgrounds too. "tybg" can set a
background to any file you like, from a simple JPEG or PNG file
through to SVG, even MP4 videos, animated gifs, even PPT files can
become your terminal background if you like. Love that presentation on
rising finacialization of market innovation? Never live without it
again! Set it as a background and enjoy it all day, every day. In your
terminal. Want to watch a video of clouds drifting by in your terminal
while using "tyls" to list files... along with their thumbnails? never
fear! Terminology will come to your rescue. Have cats trying to jump
and fail miserably by plummeting to the floor? You can have it all NOW!

{{:terminology-bg-video.png?&200 |}}


Also need translucency, so you can see what is below your terminal?
Fret not! Terminology has this bell and whistle also nicely stashed in
its chest of visual features. Feel free to set it to 0% to make your
display totally unusable as no background is then provided and you can
see everythnig behind clearly.

{{ :terminology-transparency.png?&200|}}

Is this not enough? Never mind then, We also have Tabs. Good
old-fashioned Tabs the way most people like them. Lined up along the
top of your terminal showing the current title for that Tab. And fear
not - your background videos will still play across all the Tabs you
have. Yes - the ones in hidden Tabs wil be "paused" (actually entirely
evicted from memory until you come around to open up that Tab again).

{{:terminology-tabs.png?&200 |}}

But do you want something a bit funkier with Tabs? Then hit the 4
boxes at the top-right of a terminal, or hit CTRL+SHIFT+Home and go
into "Tab switcher" mode. A grid of terminals much like EsposÃ© will
do will appear. You can navigate with the mouse or keyboard and
select what you want. All the miniatures wil be live, showing
current content scrolling by or updating, and if they have a
background - even a video, it will be playing. Live.

{{ :terminology-tab-switcher.png?&200|}}

If Tabs are not enough, Terminology also offers Splits. This allows
you to split the terminal into panes with a left/right half, or
top/bottom half. Splits can nest, so you can split a Split again as
many times as you like. They are resizable, and each Split can hold as
many Tabs as you like. So slice and dice your terminal any way you like.

{{:terminology-splits.png?&200 |}}

But don't worry, all your Splits will keep playing your videos,
displaying your wallpapers and updating their content as you might
expect them to.

{{ :terminology-splits-full.png?&200|}}

And of course we have a large set of configuration options as well.
Want something to behave a bit differently, or change look? Switch
theme? Select background visually? Change font and sizing? Just right
click or hold left mouse down and bring up the settings panels.
Customize to your liking. Terminology will store your changes for
future annoyance (unless "Temporary" is selected).

{{:terminology-settings.png?&200 |}}

Of course if a bunch of still images is not enough for you, Below we
have a video showing off more of what Terminology can do for you. It
showcases most of the features, but just know that features keep being
added all the time, and this may not represent everything you can do
today.

{{youtube>ibPziLRGvkg?large}}

