~~Title: About Rage~~
==== Rage ====

[[download|Download Rage Here]]

Code quality - [[https://scan.coverity.com/projects/4920|Coverity scan status]]

{{:icon-rage.png?nolink |}}

Rage is a video and audio player written with Enlightenment Foundation
Libraries with some extra bells and whistles.

{{ :rage-main.png?&300|}}

It is a simple video and audio player intended to be slick yet
simplistic, much like Mplayer. You can provide 1 or more files to play
on the command-line or just DND files onto the rage window to insert
them into the playlist. You can get a visual representation of
everything on the playlist by hitting the / key, or just hovering your
mouse over the right side of the window. Mouse back over the left side
of the window ti dismiss it or press the key again. It has a full
complement of key controls if you see the README for the full list. It
will automatically search for album art for music files, if not
already cached, and display that. It even generates thumbnails for the
timeline of a video and allows you to preview the position on
mouseover of the position bar at the bottom of the window.

{{:rage-music1.png?nolink |}}

It has a special music mode where it will try and fetch album covers
by searching for them if missing (and caching them locally for future
use). Make it easier to see what musinc is coming up next just by
recognizing the album cover or image in the playlist.

{{ :rage-music2.png?nolink|}}

Your playlist isn't just still thumbnails, but a full live playback of
the video in-place. No need to decipher what the media is from a
single badly chosen thumbnail, but actually watch whole sequences to
know what is there. Scroll through massive lists all you like.

{{:rage-playlist.png?&300 |}}

If you want to seek to a specific part of the video you know well,
just hover the mouse over the seke bar and get thumbnails of what part
of the timeline. **WARNING!** Spoiler alert!

{{ :rage-thumbnails.png?&300|}}

If you want a simple video player like MPlayer, but with a few more
visual niceties, then Rage may be for you. Almost all of the nuts and
bolts it relies on for video playback and UI are provided by EFL
itself or by something EFL wraps, like GStreamer, Xine, VLC etc. Since
it uses EFL, Rage will work in X11, Wayland, even the raw framebuffer.


